[Applause]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today we're here with Eric Zelkman,
previously of Stanford and XAI. We're
going to talk about the contributions
he's made to research, reasoning, and
scaling up RL as well as his new
company, Humans End. Eric, thank you so
much for doing this.
>> Thank you.
>> You have had an amazing impact as a
researcher, including starting from just
your time at Stanford. I want to hear
about that. But first background of how
you got interested in machine learning
at all.
>> I I guess going back like really far, I
I've been motivated by this question of
like you have, you know, all of these
people out there who have like all of
these things that they're really
talented in, all of these things that
people are really passionate about. Like
you have like so much like, you know,
there there's just so much talent out
there. And I've always been like a
little bit disappointed that like you
know like so much of that talent doesn't
get used just because everyone has like
circumstances and like has like these
you know situations where you know they
can't actually pursue those things. And
so for me AI
>> all of humanity is not living up to
their full potential. I mean,
>> and then you got to do AI.
>> I mean, it's the the thing I've always
been excited about is like how do you
actually build this technology that
frees people up to kind of do the things
that they are passionate about? Like how
do you basically, you know,
yeah, allow people to actually focus on
those things. You know, originally I
thought of automation as kind of like
the most natural way of doing that. like
you you automate away the parts that
like people kind of don't want to do and
that you know
>> frees up people to do the things that
they do want to do.
>> But I guess I realized like increasingly
that that's like it's actually like
pretty complex. You actually have to
understand if you want to empower people
to do what they want to do, you have to
really understand what people actually
want to do. Um and building systems that
understand kind of people's goals and
outcomes is actually really hard.
>> Um yeah.
>> Did you have like um this human ccentric
perspective when you were choosing
research problems to work on originally?
>> I I guess like at the very beginning I
was just like when I was choosing
reseent
like
>> so it's more increased capability at all
first. Yeah. I think I think for me like
you know when I looked at like AI like
or you know language models back in like
2021 or whatever you know I was like the
these things aren't very smart they
can't do that much and and there there
was some like early work around there
like um that showed that like for
example you could use like chain of
thought to like you know get models to
answer
>> more smartly but it was still like only
like a small step improvement at that
time like there was still the you know
the benefit of that was you you know, as
much as you can really get with just
prompting. And so back then I was like
thinking about okay, how do you actually
make them like halfdeent at actually
solving these harder problems?
>> Can you give a broad like we have um
everything from researcher audience to
business person audience here. Can you
give a broad intuition for a star? I
guess the the intuition is if you have a
model and it's able to solve these like
basic like these like slightly harder
questions by thinking about them then
what if you actually teach it like hey
this solution that you came up with that
got you to the right answer good job or
you know if you or if the model didn't
then you basically like uh don't reward
it. I guess the original version of SAR
actually had like or yeah there were
like no there wasn't a baseline at the
time. uh we compared it to uh reinforce
which is this like popular algorithm in
I guess reinforcement learning like very
simple like policy gradient thing but
yeah I guess you know at the time it was
like a very simple algorithm just you
know you uh iteratively generate
solutions if the solutions get you to
the right answer you learn from them if
they don't you don't and then you just
kind of keep doing this as the model
solves harder and harder problems and
then learns from harder and harder
problems
>> did you Um, at what point in the
research, if at all, were you surprised
by how well it worked or did you have
some intuition for this being like
something scalable?
>> There was one experiment that I remember
doing though this was quite a while ago
at this point. Um, but we looked at the
I think it was like ndigit like addition
or multiplication. Sorry, it's been a
second.
>> Um, and one thing that was really
interesting was that this back then this
was like a task that was considered like
hard for language models. Of course, it
was considered like one of the examples
of why they were still so stupid. Yeah.
Like
>> Exactly. And and I was like, okay. And
one one of the really interesting things
for me was that as you actually trained
for more and more iterations, the number
of digits that it was actually able to
do kept increasing. Okay.
>> And I think that this was like one of
those big surprises for me like like oh
wow like there there's no obvious
plateau here.
>> And did you go directly from that to
generally this should scale? I think I
was generally like the interest in like
yeah I I think there were a few things
though like there was one part of it
that we introduced to kind of we we
observed that there was a bunch of the
data that them all wasn't learning from
and so we proposed another variant of
this where we actually uh were like oh
what if you actually take the ones where
it fails and you um basically like ask
it to reason about like why it should
have gotten it right and then you train
as if it got it right. Mhm.
>> Um, and this version uh was kind of a
way of extending beyond the kind of the
parts of the data that it couldn't that
it couldn't see.
>> So if you only train on like the
positive examples, then you end up in
this kind of like potential minimum
where there's just no more data that it
can actually solve. And so back then we
were like, what if we just uh show it
the problems that it didn't solve and
try to teach it from those? But I guess
another thing that other work has done
since then is oh what if you just sample
a lot uh and that that also seems to
work uh in those works.
>> Star has become a broadly used part of
the reasoning paradigm since you
published. Uh can you also describe I
think this is like sort of your last
published work like Qstar.
>> Oh yeah. So quietar was um kind of the
yeah the last thing that I did back at
Stanford and it was really fun. I guess
we we showed a few things that were kind
of cool. One of the main goals of that
paper was to show that you could
actually scale this up to like
pre-training skill. Yeah. By using like
basically pre-training style data. I
guess now there's like a bunch of these
works that have come out recently around
like you know RL pre-training and stuff
like that. And that that's you know I I
guess in some ways similar to some of
the what we showed in the quietar work
instead of having question answer if you
actually just have like um you know
these arbitrary kind of like chunk
chunks of text for example and he tries
to predict what's going to come next
which is like the standard language
modeling objective. Um can you actually
get models that more generally learn to
reason? One of the kind of cooler things
that I think is kind of overlooked about
the original quiet star paper is we
showed a bunch of like uh kind of key
improvements to the star paper that were
necessary to actually do this kind of
thing. So that was for example showing
that it's really valuable for this
algorithm to be online. Mhm.
>> Um showing that it's really valuable for
uh to have a baseline where you like you
know the harder for harder problems you
learn more uh for easier problems you
like you don't learn quite as much. And
I think that there were a bunch of like
nuggets in there that uh even at the
time I don't think I fully you know
thought of as like oh wow that's
actually like a cool improvement over
the original thing. So you ended up
going to Grock for several years and you
uh sorry XAI for several years and you
worked on a bunch of different paradigms
so pre-training data for Grock 2 and
then overall the reasoning recipe for
Grock 3. I'm sure I'm missing things but
uh tool use and agentic infrastructure
for Grock 4. I I guess when you if you
level set us today like how smart are
models they can obviously do nd digit um
arithmetic at this point
>> I guess in terms of like IQ stuff I'd
say like there's a lot of and if you're
able to pose the problem like very well
um like some very advanced like physics
problem or math problem I would say
they're they're they're reasonably smart
I think like a lot of the failures that
people Give me a human comparison. What
is reasonably smart?
>> I think I think it's hard to compare
directly because it's very jagged.
>> Yeah.
>> Like like it's it's true that like some
of these for example some of the HLE
questions that these models are able to
solve are genuinely things that are like
non-trivial for like actual like PhD
researchers. I'm not saying they're like
like open problems or anything. Uh but
they are like pretty non-trivial. Also a
lot of them are like you know one one
interesting category of like these I
spend a lot of time looking at kind of
the HLE questions one interesting
category of them
>> sorry humanities last exam for anybody
who isn't looking at AC vals no great
>> um yeah so yeah looking at these
humanities last exam questions I kind of
um
uh one one kind of category that is like
actually quite big are these like
tricker trick questions that require you
know basically people like you if you're
familiar with it, you'll be like, "Oh,
they're they're trying to get you to
like assume something." But actually,
like if you think more carefully about
this problem, that assumption doesn't
hold. Um, and this this turns out to be
like a bunch of those kinds of problems.
So, I think it's like it's they're
pretty smart, but also they're more I
think tripped up by some of these like
tricky things. Um, but also they don't
really I think one of the core things is
that they're not smart like emotionally
or like they're not smart on the level
of like actually understanding kind of
what people care about or kind of like
how to actually like help people
accomplish the things that they care
about. I want to talk about this and
your next mission. But just on this
topic of if of even jagged intelligence
within like the IQ domain which I think
every almost everybody in the industry
has been uh focused on until now. What
would you recommend for people who are
not researchers to develop some sort of
intuition for that surface because that
seems very important to making them
useful.
>> Yeah. I guess one thing that's that I
think is like really important to keep
in mind is that like the more kind of
context you can give the current
generation of models, the better you
kind of are uh the the better off you
are like their answers are
>> uh super sensitive to like you know
whatever additional information you can
give them. Yeah, I I think this is like
a really important thing. I would
generally say like existing models are
particularly good at handling questions
that are like easy to answer in kind of
like a closed form like um if if there's
like a you know a simple numerical
answer to what you're asking or like a
simple like way of choosing from a set
of things. This is something that these
models actually like it obviously it's
like all dependent but this is something
that makes it easier for the model. If
you can imagine it being easy to check
your answer that actually I think makes
it easier for the models.
What um do you think is the most
dominant explanation for attempts to use
models in very verifi more verifiable
domains like code still failing at
sophisticated tasks?
>> Is it just like the wrong context has
been fed to them? Is it um context
window simply not large enough to
support the like scratch pad and
continual testing? Like what why in
those domains? What is the biggest
challenge? Part of it is there's I think
a balance when people kind of want to
give users these models, it's actually
important that they're not annoyingly
slow. And so I think there's actually
like a number of problems where like if
you gave the models more time, you know,
they would actually be able to answer
>> better. But for example, in the kind of
coding context, you kind of have to be
reasonably responsive. At least it
depend. It depends on the kind of setup,
right? Like if you look at products like
you know open eyes codeex
>> um which you know is kind of this longer
running background thing uh versus like
uh cursor which is like you know more
interactive you you have a bit more
luxury with those u more background
approaches uh to tackle harder problems
I'd say. Yeah I think I think it's a
it's a tricky question. Well, a lot of
things depend on how far the
distribution of what you're what you're
asking is from the distribution that the
models were actually trained with.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, so you know, if you happen to be
asking a problem that's very similar to
the kind of problems that it's seen
before, then you know, it'll do great.
Uh and if you're asking a problem that's
like very yeah out of domain if so like
to some extent this question is kind of
hard to answer concretely
>> without unless you know like basically
what the what the RL data for a lot of
these you know specific tasks is
>> right and today um obviously none of the
model or code agent code interface
companies are going to release like a
capability map for you of what their RL
data looks like which would be very
useful because I mean intuitively unless
if you just look outside of the
pre-training internet data sets right
there are types of problems and types of
code bases that are much further out of
distribution um and so when engineers
try in those scenarios obviously they
get a dumb dumb agent back right
>> and and you know also like the another
thing that matters a lot is just like
how verifiable are the things that
you're trying to get the model to do. I
mean obviously there's been, you know, a
ton of work out there on making models
like less dependent on verifiable
rewards.
>> Um lots of cool published papers. I I I
believe most people would say that
there's still a gap between how well
these models perform on verifiable tasks
versus non-verifiable tasks. Yeah,
absolutely.
What uh this last real question on IQ,
but because it is where 90 plus% of
industry energy, literally energy and
compute is focused, how would you
characterize where we are in scaling and
the obvious opportunity to improve from
here?
>> There's still meaningful dimensions uh
of scaling that like haven't been I
think fully explored in terms of you
know IQ. I think there's a lot of cool
efforts out there. There's a lot of cool
stuff that can, you know, that can still
be done on the capabilities axis. I I do
think that one as you start thinking
about some of these new kind of axes of
scaling, it's actually very natural to
realize that like there are ways to do
them in ways that incorporate people and
there's ways to do them in ways that
kind of leave people out more and more.
Mhm.
>> And being very mindful of, oh, hey, I'm
designing this new algorithm and it's
going to scale IQ, you know, of this
model by X amount.
>> Mhm.
>> If you effectively like keep people do
effectively keep people in the loop is
actually like a very active decision.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, and so, you know, I think in
general, if you're thinking about these
things, that's important. Wouldn't it be
fair to claim that the instinct of many
labs is to like try to get people out of
the loop as much as possible from a
scaling perspective because that's very
messy, right? If I want to recruit
people to
for example take complex reasoning
traces off them in tasks that are not in
distribution for me yet. um that is not
as simple to execute on for an
organization
uh as like
more rollouts, right? And so why is that
important at all from a capabilities
perspective?
>> I mean that's a good transition to like
what are you doing? Yeah, I'd say that
it the the main thing is just that like
as you kind of have these models that
you know expand in terms of like uh the
horizon that they're automating, you
know, you have these models the the
recent like or recentish IMO results are
like a kind of a good example of this.
You have these models that go on for
like you know hours of you know
reasoning um without any kind of human
intervention. And this has kind of been
an increasing
uh measure of success I would say for
these labs. So for example, you know,
there's this METR like meter like uh
benchmark that everyone likes to share
whenever there's a new model. Uh and
it's like oh we went from being able to
have these models work for two like
complete
>> twohour tasks autonomously without human
intervention to 2.5 hour tasks without
human intervention. And obviously
there's like questions of like what do
those numbers actually mean? Um and how
like should we take them like kind of at
face value? But regardless this kind of
been like the metric that you know
people are looking at more and more uh
to measure progress. But you know as we
kind of uh get these models that
increasingly you know remove people from
the interaction you end up with
basically people having less say in kind
of the things that get built.
>> You end up with like you know I think if
you have a model that goes off and does
its own thing for like 8 hours and comes
back to you with like something that
like is somewhat there. Um, I think this
is like a weird regime where like people
probably feel less like real agency over
the things that they're building. And I
think also I kind of anticipate that
people will feel like they don't really
understand the things that are being
built.
>> You know, I think
>> that's already true.
>> I think it's already true.
>> 20,000 lines of generated code looks
good to me.
>> Yeah. It's just like you make these PRs
and they're like 100,000 minds of like,
you know, like
>> and I I think in general this is kind of
going to be
part of the trend. So do you think that
it's important to have humans in the
loop of you know producing the output or
the reasoning because the ceiling is
higher with humans are in the loop
because it is more efficient because we
can error correct when models are off
path or philosophically because people
want that or like some combination of
all three.
>> Yeah, I think it's probably some
combination. I think another thing that
I kind of think about is like you know
the most natural thing to do as you kind
of automate away the existing set of
tasks is you know you kind of look at
the world GDP you like carve out the
parts that are like you know most easy
to replace with these models and you
know that that's kind of the things that
you target like oh wow you know coding
is like a x billion dollar market let's
automate all of that or like you know
this other segment is like a x billion
dollar market let's automate all of
that. But I actually think like if you
kind of empower people, if you if you
have models that really understand what
people are trying to accomplish and
really support them in accomplishing
those things, you have the potential to
actually grow that pie instead of
basically replacing all of those
segments. Mhm.
>> And I think in general like if the
purpose of these models is to kind of
you know replace the person for like
this chunk of work, you end up with a
lot less I think innovate real
innovation uh on kind of what's
possible. Yeah. I think if you actually
have malls that really understand what
people's goals are and really empower
them more, you end up in a very
different situation
>> because we're going to push those
capabilities into areas that are out of
distribution for them. Okay, cool.
>> I think
>> is that accurate? I'm just
>> Yeah. No, I' I'd say so. I think it's
like when I say that, you know, I'd like
to work on models that like empower
people instead of replacing them, people
are like, "Oh, yeah, sure." like but I'd
rather like you know work on curing
cancer or something. Obviously that's a
really important goal right building
models that are able to kind of solve
you know humanity's most difficult and
most fundamental problems is like
incredibly important but I also think
that like
and you know I I'm I'm sure that many of
the researchers in the field disagree I
guess in the long run we'll see kind of
what plays out. Um, but I personally
strongly believe that we're much more
likely to solve a lot of these
fundamental human problems by working
together, by building models that are
really good at collaborating with large
groups of people that are really good at
understanding different people's goals,
different people's ambitions, different
people's values, understanding different
people's weaknesses, and how to kind of
coordinate with these large groups of
people to make everyone more effective.
And I think the like the vision of this
AI that like goes off on its own for
like 20 hours, does its own thing and
kind of like, you know, comes back with
like, you know, the answers to life, the
universe, and everything. I think that
this is like
less likely. Um, I think it's, you know,
this is like a
>> I guess we'll have to see, but I think
it's less likely.
So um that goes to you are starting a
new company humans and I remember being
like actually quite fundamentally
surprised given all of your work on IQ
and reasoning and coding and and scale
that you were interested in essentially
EQ and you also thought of EQ and tell
me if this is a wrong characterization
as um like the the emotional or the
interactive capabilities of models today
have really shown up in things like
character
or like companionship tools only and you
thought of it as also like enablement
from a productivity perspective, right?
Um so tell me about like where this
thread came from.
>> Yeah, I I guess I've been thinking about
this kind of stuff for some time now.
Like even back in my PhD, I think one of
my I guess less well-known works was
actually about we show that you can
train language models to simulate
different kinds of students,
>> right?
>> Uh and tests.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and by simulating
student, you can actually design better
tests for those students. And that was
like a really cool finding like hey, if
you have models that are really good at
modeling people, you can actually design
systems that are better for people. And
like this was something that like I I
found really cool. And um and and kind
of as we move towards the current kind
of capabilities frontier, it became more
and more obvious that like the you know
we have these incredibly smart models u
that are like capable of so much but
they're not used for anywhere near what
they're capable of. Like the the role
that they play in people's lives like is
a lot less deep, a lot less positive
than it could be. And I spent a lot of
time thinking about like okay why why is
that? like why are these models not like
more like I said deeply positively
integrated into people's lives and it
seemed like a really big part of it is
like that fundamentally these models
don't really understand people they
don't understand people's goals um
they're trained I would say part of it
is like the general kind of training
paradigm that the field is in it's very
I would say single task focused or task
centric
>> it's ludicrous that all the benchmarks
are still oriented this way yeah
>> yeah I mean like like
>> or most of them
>> you know I mean even even the ones that
are like like there's very few
benchmarks out there that actually try
to consider like oh what if you actually
have like a person that's interacting
with this model like you know at best
you have like some you know multi-turn
benchmarks that like uh try to simulate
what an environment would respond in
different you know to different inputs.
Uh but even that is like still like far
from you know considering hey if you
actually have this model that interacts
with a person for like you know some
amount of time like how does it actually
affect that person's life it's it's
really remarkable that the field is kind
of like so stuck in this kind of task
ccentric regime um and I think it but it
makes a lot of sense one thing that I
was told by some folks at you know at
Google is that it. One of the reasons is
that like it's actually very useful for
like credit assignment. So like being
able to have like these benchmarks that
are very easy to quantify and very easy
to like relate to some like immediate
thing means that you can kind of say
like oh yeah this like you know this
this team did like 2% better than this
team so they deserve like all of the
resources or you know this team like
improved the benchmark by like 10% while
this team improved it by 5%. So, you
know, let's let's allocate accordingly.
And I think in general, like that's
that's part of it. I think another part
of it is like kind of more aligned with
the easiest ways to train these models.
It's it's not easy to, you know, have
these RO environments and stuff. You
have lots of these companies popping up
obviously that are trying to sell, you
know, environments to different people.
But, uh,
>> the most popular are, of course, in
coding and computer use.
>> Yeah. um rather than anything that
requires simulating people.
>> Yeah, it it's not that surprising that
we're kind of in this current uh regime.
But
>> so what do models need to um know about
people or like what capabilities are
they um either missing or have not been
elicited from them?
>> The most fundamental thing is that the
models kind of don't understand the
long-term implications of the things
that they do and say. When you treat
every turn of a conversation as kind of
its own game
>> and you, you know, you basically think
of it as like, okay, you had this
interaction, you're done. You need to
make sure that this one response has all
of the possible answers, has all of the
possible content. You don't ever like
ask questions. You don't ever like try
to clarify things. You don't really tend
to express uncertainty. Um, you don't
tend to be proactive. you don't tend to
think about the long-term uh like like
you see a lot of like even single term
side effects of this kind of regime like
and most of them are treated as kind of
their own problems to solve. You see
issues around like that that people
highlight around like sigopency. you see
issues that you know there was recent
news around like you know the psychosis
stuff there there's a lot of these like
uh harmful effects that you get if you
think about things in this very single
task or like task ccentric way um but if
you have models that actually consider
you know the long-term implications of
oh hey if I tell this person to start
like a you know a company that you know
sells gloves for catching ice cream. If
I like tell them that that sounds like a
good business idea, they might actually
go and they might actually build that
business and they might realize that it
was not actually a good business idea.
Having a model that can kind of rule out
the long-term implications of the things
>> and they won't trust me anymore and then
they won't pay for my compute.
>> Exactly.
>> And it's all over.
>> Exactly. Um,
>> no, I'm I'm kidding. I think that's
that's really interest like one of the
very core principles we have at
conviction for how we make decisions is
well what is the very long-term thing we
want right and like if that is the
customer the founder in this case or an
LP or even for us like it actually
simplifies things quite a bit if you say
like we're optimizing for like a decade
plus um versus like this interaction uh
and and so being single turn versus
multi-turn seems like a very different
way to make decisions. It seems very
hard to collect data about multi-turn
human interactions, especially when you
get to time, you know, it's actually
like analogous to a problem in biology
of how do you study diseases that just
take time to progress?
>> I think it's a really fundamental
question. I think there is actually like
some good academic work that has started
to explore some of this. Yeah, there's
some work recently around like you know
RL from human interaction. There's some
there's a cool paper called a collab LLM
you know that that trains against like
you know simulation there's a lot of
very cool work kind of starting to
explore this in academia um but in
general I would say uh there's a lot
less attention being paid to this kind
of stuff in industry um because uh I
would say for most labs um and maybe
this is a strong statement but I would
say for most labs like the the human is
kind of you know the intermediate
until you have like this fully automated
like you know system. And so spending a
lot of time optimizing things for being
really good at understanding and really
good at interacting and really good at
collaborating with things is kind of
like almost like a intermediate thing
you have to do until you get to this
like you know fully automated point.
Mhm. Can you paint a picture of like if
we have models that better understand um
human objectives over different time
scales and are good at interacting with
humans, how is that more integrated into
like your life 5 years from now?
>> Yeah, I think you don't you don't need
to go that far out
>> two years.
>> But yeah, I think um I think you get a
lot of behaviors that you currently
don't really see in these models. I
think you have models that are much
better at understanding how the things
that you say in apps fit in to the
overall like context of the stuff that
you're doing. Like for example like uh
if the model knows that you're going to
like you know some some wedding for
example uh and then you ask it about
like booking you know hotels in Paris it
might you know consider oh hey like
around the time of this event you know I
know that this user like has all these
things that are true about them like a
model that's generally able to kind of
think about how every thing that you say
fits into your understanding of that
person uh would just be like I think a
very fundamentally different
interaction. Uh because right now if you
want to ask a question like that, you
kind of have to dump all of this context
in. You have to tell like oh you know I
can you help me find a hotel in Paris.
This is because you know I'm going to
like a wedding. I have like you know
these constraints I you know I have like
these people who need to be with me. I
have like you know it needs to do this.
It needs to be, you know, you have you
need basically just dump all of the
context that's relevant to yourself into
the model
>> and
>> which is also an expensive interaction.
>> Yeah.
>> And something that most people won't do.
>> Imagine if you had a friend where you
had to reexlain everything about
yourself to them every time you spoke.
Yeah. Like can you imagine if every time
you interacted with someone you
basically like they remember like your
name and like you know maybe what you do
and like just like the really highle
sketch of your life like it would be
that that friendship probably would not
last very long. Yeah, I think that's
kind of what the current models are. So
you'd argue that the like any investment
in memory that today's models have is
not it's not that interesting or that
core to their capabilities today.
>> I would say that um memory is definitely
like a feature that has been under
underinvested in uh by the field. Uh but
I would say that it is kind of difficult
to invest in memory in this very like
task ccentric regime because if you have
like a bunch of these like independent
tasks the the amount of information that
each of those needs from other things
that you've discussed is not all that
high
>> um like because of the current paradigm
memory doesn't end up being super useful
in the training and so these models are
not particularly good at doing it. So,
one other thing I said to you, I think
out of like fear instinct than anything
else, but I I feel like other people
will have this uh reaction as well, is
I'm a unique snowflake. You can't
possibly simulate, you know, me and all
of my self-consistency issues between
like I want to learn this today, but I
don't actually want to do the work. I
want to eat cake, but I want to be in
shape as well. Like, you know, we have
different time scales and change our
minds.
I'm just constant distribution shift
like and then you can't possibly bring
all of us under distribution like what
how do you react to that?
>> I think to a certain extent it's
probably a little bit true. It's not
easy to to to build these like really
good models of people. But I do think
that the task for the model needs to be
that it should be trying to do that.
Like the model needs to actually be like
trying to learn all of these like trying
to learn h about you, trying to learn
about you know the things that you care
about. Like the the actual objective of
the model needs to be to kind of
understand you and like it probably
won't be perfect like but boy you know
like you can be a lot better than the
current models like um
>> that seems totally reasonable actually.
Yeah, I think um and you know it's it's
something that I think as a field uh we
will probably get better at. I'm not
going to pretend that you know I'm going
to oneshot this problem, but I think
even like any serious effort gets you
quite a long way. So there is like a
cult sci-fi series about the culture
where you have you know these super
intelligent minds and essentially uh all
of the human and humanlike races um live
in a society where the minds make most
of the decisions.
>> Mhm. And there's like h I forget the
total humanoid population, but let's say
there are 30 or 40 minds that are still
relevant as people in terms of perhaps
being out of distribution or providing
reasoning that the minds cannot and
everybody else just lives in a world of
abundance where they're like rock
climbing and hang out or whatever and
they they do not produce. How is your
view of abundance different?
everyone kind of has things that they're
passionate about and given the
opportunity I think
like people can do like really cool
things. I think um the role of the model
should be to allow people to do those
really cool things that everyone kind of
wants to do and accomplish those things
that everyone kind of wants to
accomplish. And I think like you know we
shouldn't outsource all of the thinking
and all of the you know everything to
these you know AI overlords or whatever.
I think what we really want are models
that are able to empower us.
>> Amazing. Um, okay. Super unique mission,
amazing research work. You're hiring an
early team, getting a lot of compute.
Who are you looking for on the
recruiting side?
>> One, one thing that I think is actually
probably a good thing that my previous
company did is, you know, thinking of
everyone kind of to some extent as like
engineers. I think um I'm looking for
really strong infro folks who can build
stuff. I'm looking for really strong
researchers who can build stuff. I'm
looking for really strong product folks
who can build stuff. I'm looking for
people who like have thought a lot about
like users who've thought a lot about
like memory, you know, on the research
side. I'm looking for, you know, on the
infra side for people who've thought a
lot about like distributed systems,
really fast inference, people who've uh,
you know, been there to scale really big
projects up. Um, on the product side, I
think people who are like, you know,
really creative about like new modes of
interaction, people who have who really
deeply care about building beautiful,
tasteful products.
>> Awesome. Thanks so much, Eric.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Congrats on the new company.
[Music]
>> Find us on Twitter at No Prior Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.